You, um,
you've also mentioned to me offline that you're really excited about all the
different wearables and all the different ways we can collect information about
our bodies about, uh, well,
the whole thing is it w what's most exciting to you in terms of collecting the,
the, the biological, uh, data, uh,
about a human being?
Well, so I'm a biologist. I find animals and humans as machines.
Very interesting. Um,
it's one of the reasons I didn't become an engineer or a surgeon.
I wanted to understand how we actually built. And, uh,
so I think a lot about machines merging with humans and
the first of that other bio wearables. And so I talked a lot about this.
I wrote about it, um, in lifespan,
the book and pictured a future where you would be monitored constantly so
that you wouldn't suddenly have a heart attack, you'd know that was coming,
or you, you wouldn't go to the doctor and they don't know if it's an,
you need an antibiotic or not. Um, long-term how old are you,
how to fix things? What should you eat? What should you take?
What your doctor do? These devices I predicted would be smarter,
better educated than your, than your physician and would augment them.
And then there'd be a human that would just tick off to see if that it's
correct. And they approve. Um,
I also was predicting in the book that we would have video conferences with
our doctors, and that medicines would be delivered initially by courier,
but eventually by drones and get it to you sometimes in an emergency.
And that we could even have pills that were, were synthesized or delivered, um,
in your kitchen and combined.
Certainly what's amazing about that is that what are we now,
two years since the book came out even less,
and that future is basically here already. COVID 19 accelerated,
accelerated that incredibly. So where we're at now in society is if you,
if you want to pay for it, you can have a blood test that will detect cancer 10,
20 years earlier than it would before it forms a tumor. You can of course,
do your genome very cheaply for less than a hundred dollars. Now, um,
there are bio wearables already. I wear this bring from aura, um,
that I have number of years of data.
I've been doing blood tests for the last 12 years with a company called inside
tracker, which I consult for. And so I have all of that data as well.
And there's 34 different parameters on my testosterone, my blood glucose,
my inflammation, and I use all that data to, of course,
I wear a watch that that measures things as well.
I use that data to keep my body in optimal shape.
So I'm now 51. And according to those parameters,
I'm at least as good as someone in their early forties. And I,
if I really work at it,
I can get my biochemistry down to early to mid thirties. Um,
though I liked it. You know, now ate a little dessert once in a while.
So that's the future we're in right now. Anyone can do what I just said,
but the very near future, just in the next few years,
or you can be wearing wearables. So I'm currently wearing a little,
what's called a bio sticker. Uh, this one, um, I just put on last night,
uh, it's about an inch long, a few millimeters.
We were just listening. It's a San David's chest. It was just a,
how does it attach it? Just kind of, it sticks on.
Yeah. So on one side you have an on button that you press the lights come on,
flashes four times. It's good to go immediately syncs to your phone.
And this one, uh, the it's called a buyer button and last name. And there's a,
there's another one that I have that I haven't tried yet.
That does EKG on your heart. Um,
this is mainly for doctors to monitor patients that go home after a heart attack
or surgery, but that's medical grade, FDA approved device.
So there will be a day. In fact,
it's already here that doctors are using these to get patients to go home and
save a week in hospital, $2,000,
at least for each patient,
that's massive safe savings for the hospital.
But ultimately what I'm excited about is a future that isn't that far off where
everybody certainly in developed countries,
eventually these will cost a few cents and rechargeable.
The only cost will be the software subscription that can be monitored
constantly.
And to give an idea what this is measuring me at a thousand times a second is,
uh, my vibrations as I speak my orientation,
it can tell already has told me this morning, how I slept, where I slept,
what side I slept on. Uh, we've got sneezing, coughing,
body temperature, heart rate,
hot of other parameters of the heart that would indicate heart health.
These, these data are being used to now to,
to predict sickness.
So eventually we'll have just in the next year or so,
the ability to predict whether something or diagnose whether something is
pneumonia or just a rhinovirus that can be traded or
not, right. This is really going to not just revolutionize medicine,
but I think extend lives dramatically. Cause if I have,
if I'm going to have a heart attack next week and that's possible,
this device should know that and I'll be in hospital before I even have it.
Maybe you can talk a little bit about inside tracker.
Cause I saw that there's some really cool things in there, like it actually. So,
um, maybe you can talk about, I guess,
that you're collecting blood to give it the data. So,
and it has like basic recommendations on how to improve your life. So it's not,
we're not just talking about diseases, right? Like anticipating, uh,
having a particular disease,
but it's almost like guiding your trajectory to life. How to,
whether it's extend your life or just live a more fulfilling,
like improve the quality of life. I suppose this is the right way to say it.
What, how does inside track of work? Uh, what the heck is it?
Cause I thought there was also pretty cool. Yeah. What is it?
I guess it's something other people can use. You.
Can definitely use it. Uh, you can sign up at.
It's consumer particular company and consumer facing.
Company. It is. Yeah. Uh,
and I also want to democratize the ability to, to just take a mouth swab.
Eventually we don't need to have a blood test necessarily,
but for now it's a blood test and,
and you'd go to a lab Corp request in the U S um, it's also available overseas.
You can upload your own data for a minimal cost and get the algorithms,
the AI in the background to take that data plot where you
are against others in your age group,
as in terms of health and longevity at bio age, they call it inner edge,
but also it provides recommendations. And this isn't just a bunch of BS.
It sounds like it might be to say,
I'll go eat this or go to that restaurant in order that,
but it's actually based on they basic this company has entered
hundreds.
Now it would be thousands of scientific papers into their database and hundreds
of thousands of human data points.
And they have tens of thousands of individuals that have been tracked over time
and anonymously. That data is used to say what works and what doesn't,
if you eat that, what works if you take that supplement, what works?
And I was in a coauthor on a paper that showed that the recommendations for food
and supplements, um,
was better than the leading drug for type two diabetes.
That's so cool. The idea that you can connect, like skipping the human,
having to do this work, you can connect the scientific papers,
almost like meta analysis of the science connected to the individual data.
And then based on that sort of connect your data to whatever the proper
group is within the,
whatever the scientific paper is to make the suggestion of how,
how I called that work, applies to your life.
And then that ultimately maps to like a recommendation of what you should do
with your life.
Like it all like this giant system that ultimately recommends you should drink
more coffee or less.
Right. And we'll have the genome in there as well. You can upload that here. Uh,
and so these programs will know us way better than we do. And,
and our doctors as well,
the idea of going to a doctor once a year for an annual annual checkup and
having, you know, males get a finger up their button, uh, you know,
you cough that,
that to me is a joke that's medieval medicine and that's very soon going to be
seen as medieval.
Yeah. It's um, to me, as a computer science person,
it's always upsetting to go to the doctor and just look at him and like,
realize, you know, nothing about me. Like you, you you're, you're,
you're making your like opinions based on like,
it is very valuable years of intuition building about basic
symptoms, but you're just like, it is medieval. They're very good at it.
In fact,
doctors in medieval times are probably good at working with very little,
but the thing is I would rather prefer for a doctor
that doesn't really know what they're doing,
but has a huge amount of data to work with.
Well, you're right. And many of my good friends are doctors. I work at Harvard.
Um, so I'm not against the profession at all,
but I think that they need just as much help as anyone else does.
We wouldn't drive a car without a dashboard. We wouldn't think of it.
So why would doctors do the same.